---
layout: post
title:  Striving For Pixel Perfect
image:
---

###October 27, 2014

Only took five weeks for me to actually understand how my blog was built. Yes I was able to add images, a navigation bar, a title, some posts, and do so many other things, but I had no idea how any of the HTML and CSS worked. I was using Bootstrap and was merely following their instructions for creating a navbar and for making images responsive, and was also referencing others' blogs for other ideas. If I wanted to try and center some content or add a margin, I tried to add some divs, change some tags, add some new Bootstrap classes, which while it technically would add some CSS based on the classes in the Bootstrap style sheet, I had no idea what I was doing.

Now I know. I now realize why all of my previous attempts at fiddling with my layout (trying to center text, adjust my navbar, etc.) was a complete waste of time. All I needed to do was change the CSS, not add more HTML tags and classes. It took me about ten minutes of messing around with my blog to center my content, add some margins, and make the layout actually legible rather than having everything left-justified with no spacing.

I have arrived at this epiphany from the completion of the weeks assignments. We worked on recreating some blueprints from [Codrops](http://tympanus.net/codrops/category/blueprints/) without viewing the source code, and also attempted to replicate / improve the [TIY Orlando website](http://orlando.theironyard.com). These exercises gave me a significant amount of practice with HTML and CSS and showed me exactly how tags, classes, and ids are used in HTML and also helped me delve into the semantic elements of HTML5. After that, it just came down to tinkering with CSS using the Google developer tools to see what each CSS attribute was doing.

Now that I have a better understanding, time to put it to use and see what I can do to improve my blog. Already gave it some styling during the week to mess around with the new skills I had learned, but still not quite satisfied. My perfectionist tendencies may make CSS quite a time sink...

Lessons Learned:
1. There is certainly more than one way to get the same result using HTML and CSS.
2. Frameworks, such as Bootstrap, are awesome tools, but can be a crutch.
