---
layout: post
title:  How About A Nice Game Of Chess?
image:
---

###October 20, 2014

End of week four, and I finally feel like I'm figuring things out. I was feeling good week one and two, and last week I stumbled a bit and was struggling when it came to actually writing out the code on my own. I could fix broken code, or try and refactor, but actually writing the javascript to make our projects function was just not happening.

Enter week four.

We were assigned the most challenging project to date, even more challenging than conway. We were tasked with implementing a fully functioning game of Chess based on a provided framework. By fully functioning I don't mean interactive. Players couldn't move pieces, but given a set of moves the game would start a new game, print the board at each step, remove pieces, keep track of the turn, and count the score total for each player at the end of each move.

When we received this assignment on Thursday, I was confident I could tackle this over the weekend. Then we started to do some sudo coding, mapping out the project on the whiteboard, and discussing what we believed the functionality was for each constructor and method we were given. I quickly realized, like with most of our assignments thus far, I had underestimated the complexity of the assignment.

Friday and Saturday were reserved for bashing my head into the keyboard while making things more difficult than necessary. I was under the impression from the beginning that I needed to use only a single variable to represent all eight pawns of a single color and saving the positions of each pawn within an array. Turns out this was merely my best attempt at ruining my weekend and I did in fact need to create a separate variable for each piece. With that completed, I still had no idea where to go. I was making this more complicated than necessary, overthinking each new idea, and was unsuccessful in getting any of the important functions working (moving pieces just to start).

Sunday had me finding my way back to The Iron Yard classroom to meet up with Nick Hare and Ari Gonzalez to tackle this juggernaut. This is where the magic happened. I stopped thinking, put on my headphones, dropped into the world of javascript and just let my ideas flow.

 * Basic implementation of the board: done!
 * Array created to store the values for all pieces with color, name, and starting position of each piece: done!
 * Moving the piece from one board location to another: done!
 * Making the code legible: Er... not quite.

 Within the first two hours I had been more successful in writing code than I had been all weekend. Our group worked amazingly together! We were all working on separate tasks but were still able to assist each other with issues, share code, and discuss ideas for refactoring. I worked primarily on functionality, writing code that would make Chess work, even if it wasn't pretty. Ari worked on refactoring the mess of code to a more legible state, and Nick was determined to tackle a more optimized board display method. My biggest accomplishment of the day was writing the move function and then refactoring later to not just move the piece but also remove another piece if necessary, track the turn number, and keep track of score. Original code was:

    Chess.prototype.move = function (piece, destination){

      pieces.forEach(function(value, index){
        if (pieces[index].position[0] === piece[0] && pieces[index].position[1] === piece[1]){
          var x = pieces[index].position[0];
          var y = pieces[index].position[1];
          self.board[x][y] = ' ';
          pieces[index].position = destination
          x = pieces[index].position[0];
          y = pieces[index].position[1];
          self.board[x][y] = pieces[index].letter
          console.log(self.board);
        }
      })
    }

This method took in a board location, found which piece was at the referenced location, and moved the piece to the destination cell. This was then updated into:

    self.pieces.some(function(_piece, index){
        if (_piece.position[0] === destination[0] && _piece.position[1] === destination[1]){
          self.pieces.splice(index, 1);
        }
    })

    self.pieces.forEach(function(_piece, index){
      if (_piece.color === 'White'){
        totalW += points[_piece.name];
      } else {
        totalB += points[_piece.name];
      }
    })

    self.pieces.some(function(_piece, index){
      if (_piece.position[0] === piece[0] && _piece.position[1] === piece[1]){
        _piece.position = destination
        console.log(Chess.prototype.display());
      }
    })

This new function would do the same thing as my original move function but used .some rather than .forEach so it would stop cycling through the array once the value was found (as it is impossible for two pieces to have the same location on a Chess board) and also added in the additional functionality of removing a piece from the pieces array.

Nothing so far has been as satisfying as successfully complete this assignment.

Lessons learned:
1. Working in groups can be more effective than working solo.
2. Don't bash your head into the keyboard while working on an assignment; go work on something else or take a break (timebox / pomodoro technique).
