---
layout: post
title:  I'm the Juggernaut!
image: /images/juggernaut.jpg
date: September 19, 2014
---

###September 19, 2014

I recently made the radical decision to quit my job at GEICO in the hope of beginning a career in programming. I floundered around for a couple of months before I stumbled across The Iron Yard's website, just four days before class begins. I did a little research and before the day was over I was on the phone with Sarah Elbadri, the campus director, and she was telling me everything I wanted to hear. The next day I was on the phone with David Rogers, the instructor for The Iron Yard, and it seemed like things were finally clicking. I wasn't going to accept "No" as an answer; this class was what I needed to propel me into the field of coding and I was going to seize the opportunity. By the end of the day I was on my way to Best Buy to purchase a new Macbook Pro and preparing for Monday, the first day of class...

This class wasn't cheap. This laptop wasn't cheap. Three months without a job isn't cheap... But you can't put a price on the future... well technically you can get the future value of money... That's not the point. There is no price I can put on MY future, and I would make the same decision again.

I thank my parents for their neverending support, regardless of the seemingly reckless career decisions I have made recently.

This isn't another reckless decision. This class won't beat me. I will succeed.

>_"Sumthin's makin' me that way... Sumthin's drawin' me somewhere -- an' I'll march through any thing or any man ta get there!"_
  - Cain Marko
