---
layout: post
title: Day one of many
image: /images/alice.jpg
date: September 22, 2014
---


Today was the first of many days I will be spending in the inaugural Front End Engineering class for The Iron Yard in Orlando, and I couldn't be more excited!

Just to quickly recap the events preceding the first day of class:

<blockquote>On Sunday night we had an informal class dinner / gathering in Orlando's Church Street Exchange Building, the location of the class and a soon to be major hub for the Orlando tech community. My brother, Ted Soper the up and coming Javascript guru at Fyre, accompanied me to the gathering for an evening of food, beverages, and debauchery... or at least two of those things. We of course arrived fashionably early (that's the fashionable time to show up for a gathering, right?) and proceeded to awkwardly stand amongst the few people who had meandered into the room. As the clock ticked ever closer to 6:00pm more people filtered in, conversations ensued, and beverages were imbibed. It was nice. I felt truly lost listening to Ted talk to David Rogers, the aforementioned instructor of the course, and Brian Gates, our teaching assistant, about certain complaints about phones and software, and honestly who knows what else as I just faded into my mind while they spoke their foreign language... By the end of the night I had met most, if not all, of the other members of my class and carried some meaningful conversation with a few. It was nice getting to know everyone the night before class, removed some of the anxiety surrounding that first day.</blockquote>

I woke up early Monday morning at 5:30am. Well, early for me considering my past few nights of sleep had began around 10:00am and 7:00am. I was excited, anxious, and determined to be early for class. Based on the parking predicament downtown, I wasn't going to find a place for less than $80 a month and it STILL wasn't convenient. As a result, I opted to try out Florida's public transportation system, the Sunrail. The Sunrail offered a short commute, dodged traffic, and cost about half of what I would spend on parking downtown. However, I had never used the Sunrail and I arrived entirely too early as it took less than ten minutes to arrive downtown... lesson learned.

While I had the pleasure of meeting everyone the night before, I still had some concerns coming into Monday morning. Would I be the only one without much coding experience? Would we all be like minded in our pursuit of education? Could we work together as a cohesive unit to accomplish our tasks? It didn't take long for me to get the answers to those questions... No, yes, and absolutely. Not only is everyone pleasant, they are all helpful and courteous as well. To make things even easier, we have chat programs / systems designed for the class to help us all communicate more effectively and efficiently. Now that we all knew each other a little better, it was time to jump into the one thing we all had come for - coding.

Monday's focus was on GitHub, a host site for Git repositories that was used for version control and project management. It allows multiple people to be working on different features of the same project and provides a way to merge everything back together. We spent the majority of the day focused on learning Git and how to properly use GitHub. Already I can see how this will be a necessary tool for all programmers to learn.

Today was the first day of The Iron Yard, and it was a good day.
