---
layout: post
title: How many times can I remake this site?
image: /images/lego.jpg
date: September 23, 2014
---

###September 23, 2014

Today's primary goal was to go deeper into Github by learning how to create a blog. Not only is the creation of the blog going to help with our understanding of GitHub, but the use of the blog will be instrumental in our growth. This blog will serve as a tool to reflect on what we learned, what obstacles we may have encountered, how we persevered, and will be important not only during this class but throughout our professional career as well. However, that does't mean this project didn't nearly drive me insane...

We began our blog process by creating a new repository using GitHub and started off with an automatic page generator in GitHub Pages. This generator provided us with a simple theme and a home page for us to build off of. We then went to the Cloud 9 website to use as our workspace and installed Jekyll, a static site generator. Then came the fun part:

"How do I create a new post? Where do I add the new post to my home page?? Am I supposed to be coding using HTML or Markdown??? Where do I even put the code????"

*Deep Breathes*

"Okay. I can figure this out." After about an hour of tinkering I had the answers to all of these questions and more. Those answers didn't come without a price. When I entered my initial freak out stage I started deleting files that seemed to be conflicting with my code. Unable to retrieve those files due to my failure to commit my changes, I deleted the entire repository and started over. Lesson learned: don't delete things that you don't understand. Then after my second attempt I had everything working and my home page even had a link to my most recent blog post. Success! But was it enough?...

No, of course not. I had to take it to the next level and try and implement a new Jekyll theme to my blog rather than being content with the GitHub Pages theme I had started with. My task started off simple: find a new theme I liked. Done. Follow the insructions and download the file so I can import it into my repository and update my theme. Done? Not quite... My original assumption was that I could download the file and add it to my repository using Cloud 9, and it turns out later on that my original assumption was correct. However, after I downloaded the file I could see no possible way for me to add that file to my repository, so I confered with the TA who informed me that I could use a terminal command (curl) to download the file directly into my repository. After many failed attempts I realized this wasn't going to work either. So what was the next logical solution? Starting over of course!

I decided that the only way I was going to be able to successfully implement my new Jekyll theme was to fork the theme's repository, change the name of the forked repository to my blog name, and delete my blog. Again. After tinkering for a while longer I had made some progress. I had successfully recreated my blog posts, added them to the home page, and had even imported some photos using my nifty new terminal command. Everything was going perfect. Until I tried running the website in Cloud 9 and it looked like the aftermath of an entire symphony playing the brown note. After many failed attempts to edit the layout, I conceded and realized my defeat. I was tired, overwhelmed, and ready to put my computer away and begin again in the morning.

Sleep found me shortly  and I dreamt of true happiness - my blog with the working Jekyll theme.
