---
layout: post
title:  60% of the time, it works every time
image:
---

###November 3rd, 2014

Week six has been spent implementing Javascript into the browser, primarily in the form of on-click functions, and also learning even more CSS such as hover and transition. Turns out this wasn't enough for the week. On top of that we also spent the week making all of our previous assignments responsive by adding in breakpoints so we could adjust CSS and HTML for different screen sizes. We did responsive both from desktop-first and mobile-first, and so far I'm not sure which one is better.

The benefit of using mobile-first is that you are generally adding in features as you get to the next breakpoint rather than removing them. However, doing desktop-first had the advantage of laying out of all the content you want on the site and then determining how and what you want to display at each smaller screen size. I did a lot more mobile-first design this week than anything else, thanks to the weekend assignment, and look forward to trying out desk-top first for a comparison.

Week six's end of week assignment was an interesting experience. The assignment was to create two fully responsive sites based off of Codrop's [Product Grid](http://tympanus.net/codrops/2013/05/17/product-grid-layout/) and [Horizontal Slide Out Menu](http://tympanus.net/codrops/2013/05/17/horizontal-slide-out-menu/). Our class decided that we wanted to do this assignment in groups, rather than as individuals, because we have had a rather difficult time getting everyone to finish each assignment every week. Well, I wanted to do the assignment in groups, our class wanted to do the assignments in group, as in one thirteen person group. I figured having thirteen people who have no experience working on a collaboration on Github would create problems. I wasn't wrong...

The cliff notes version of what happened this weekend:
1. Some people did a lot more work than others.
2. There were plenty of merge conflicts with nobody knowing how to solve them.
3. Logan Arnett was an absolute all-star for the Product Grid team as everyone was designing their features within a sandbox rather than based off of the CSS and HTML frameworks that were provided. This led to many wasted hours of Logan trying to implement, and eventually recreating, half of the features himself.
4. There were a lot of files pushed to master that shouldn't have, there were unnecessary folders, and some close calls on file deletions.
5. Not everything was finished.

So while I would overall say this weekend was unsuccessful in completing the assignment, we all learned a lot about collaborating and Github. I suppose this weekend assignment was more successful than previous end of week assignments as everyone had 80% of an assignment completed rather than 50% of the class having everything completed. My only question would be how much did everyone really learn about the actual assignment? The main goal of these big projects is to reinforce what was taught during the week and to see what you actually know and what you need to improve upon. I know that there are aspects of this weekend assignment that I never even touched or saw, and while in a real work environment this is often going to be the case, it is less useful when attempting to learn the material.

Week seven we will be going to the [Breaking Development Conference in Orlando](https://bdconf.com/events/orlando-2014/) on Tuesday and Wednesday. We were lucky enough to get some discounted tickets so that we could attend, and I'm looking forward to seeing what this conference has to offer.

Lessons Learned:
1. Need to learn how to properly structure a Github repo for proper workflow in a group.
2. Collaboration is difficult when everyone isn't on the same page (make sure everyone is on the same page, don't just assume they are!)
3. Brian Fantana from Anchorman was actually talking about CSS (refer to title).
