---
layout: post
title: Joining the dark side and an epiphany...
image: /images/vader.jpg
date: September 24, 2014
---


"Only in your dreams!" couldn't have been a more accurate description of the state of my blog. It was in shambles. The morning came and again I found myself scrapping my repository and starting over. I was uncessful in my attempts at adding a new theme, I didn't sleep much and as a result today was the day I finally succumbed to the ever tempting calls of the dark side - I drank coffee.

As I was now an expert at recreating the repository and I was fueled by the growing power of the dark side, it took me less than thirty minutes to get everything back up and running to the pre-Jekyll theme fiasco. It was about 8:30 when people started trickling in and I was just getting ready to relax and listen to a podcast when I looked at one of my classmate's computers. He had successfully implemented a Jekyll theme to his blog. I immediately took my headphones out and started grilling him as I was desperate to emulate his success. Lucky for me, Ari Gonzalez was more than happy to assist me in my quest.

Ari explained to me that he found the Jekyll theme repository that he desired and then spent an unfortunate amount of time manually creating each file and folder and then copy pasting the code from each file over. This. Was. Insane. I can't imagine spending all of that time just to get a Jekyll theme added to your blog... Five minutes later I had my chosen theme downloaded and was getting ready to do some copy pasta when I saw that he had not only added a theme to his blog, but also had a cover photo too. At the time I was under the impression that the only way to add files to the repository was through terminal commands so I inquired as to how he had learned about the terminal command to download the file. That simple interaction is when the whole game changed.

Ari casually dragged and dropped an image from his desktop into his Cloud 9 repository like it was no big deal. I felt like I had just watched him invent the wheel. Like he was the virgin Mary giving birth to baby Jesus. At that moment I could have kissed that man... and yet he had no idea why. Being able to drag and drop the image meant that I could drag and drop the ENTIRE theme without having to create a single new folder or copy and paste 90 files worth of code. This of course hadn't dawned on him until I mentioned it, he was too excited by the fact that he had been able to successfully implement his new theme, and I don't blame him. After copying everything over and editing a few files to make it work with my existing code, I was finally able to test my new theme out! Annnnddd, it didn't work.

This time, I didn't despair. I had copied the same theme Ari had used and I had merged it with my preexisting code without issue, or so I thought. This was when I learned that running your site in Cloud 9 doesn't necessarily show you what your site would actually look like. I commited my changes, pushed them to GitHub, issued a pull request so I could merge code from my temp branch to my master branch, and then ran the site. It was glorious. Lesson learned: don't trust Cloud 9; always push your code to GitHub and test it. I probably wasted countless hours on my Jekyll theme the night before just to delete it after so many uncessful tries. For all I know the theme was working perfectly, I just never pushed it to GitHub to find out...

I spent the remainder of the day uploading images, editing my theme, attempting to add a floating navigation bar (which I finally succeeded at with using bootstrap), and in general making everything look aesthetically pleasing. It was close to midnight when I realized I needed to actually update the content of my blog rather than just the visuals...

Sometimes my priorities are slightly distorted.
