---
layout: post
title:  When you play the game of life, you live or you die
image: /images/life.jpg
---

###October 06, 2014

Week two has come and gone and I honestly never thought I could learn so much in seven days. We went from discussing git to learning JavaScript and never looked back.

We began the week with a 'simple' JavaScript application which would convert [words to numbers](https://github.com/asoper29/TIY-Assignments/blob/86f9db9789e38a43a8eb7f14de4fedccf6267f08/Dojos/dojo--2014-09-30.js) and return the sum. To make things easier, and to introduce the idea of paired programming, we began an exercise called coding dojo, or ping-pong pairing using a red-green-refactor method. This mean the first person writes a failing line of code or test and then the next person makes that test work and writes their own failing line. Continue this for one hour or until done with the assignment.

I was having a few issues with nvm and node that I had to resolve before beginning the assignment. Turns out things were installed incorrectly (two weeks into being a MacBook Pro owner and still figuring things out). Finally got things up and running and Phillycc (David Elmer) and I were the last ones without partners. I couldn't have asked for a better partner. We worked together flawlessly and while the expected solution for the assignment was 100 lines of test code, we managed to do it fewer lines. Our test code looked like this:


        var numLet = ['zero','one','two','three','four','five','six','seven','eight','nine','ten'];

        var print = function (a,b,c) {
          console.log('it should add "' + a + '" to "' + b + '": ',
          add(a, b) === c);
        };

        for (var j = 1; j <= 10; j++){
          for (var i = 0; i < numLet.length; i++){
            print(numLet[j], numLet[i], j+i);
          }
        };


The assignment seemed quite daunting when we started, but doing the ping-pong style pairing with David made it a whole lot easier.

Tuesday we worked on [another JS application](https://github.com/asoper29/TIY-Assignments/blob/f5188336fc0d46b907bbd3aa552dbd80b28f20fd/Dojos/dojo--2014-10-01.js) which would take a number and convert it to the string representation of that number (1000 to One Thousand). Just looking at this assignment it seemed harder than the last, and that was the correct impression.

I worked with a new partner this time, and we did not have nearly the success I had with the last assignment. We were both on different pages and he was having some difficulty grasping the basics of JavaScript. Unfortunately I found myself an inadequate teacher that day and we made very little progress. Wasn't until the next day I was able to bounce ideas off of some classmates to come to a functioning program.

The final assignment for the week, the big weekend crushing assignment, was creating an implementation of [Conway's Game of Life](http://www.emergentmind.com/game-of-life) using JavaScript. Now, we weren't expected to be able to implement Conway's Game of Life on a large scale, merely have it fully functioning for a 3x3 grid. Still, this was a large task and needed to be broken down:

<ol>
  <li>Create a 3x3 board</li>
  <li>Set a value for each 'cell'</li>
  <li>Find the values of neighboring cells</li>
  <li>Perform [Conway's Rules](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway's_Game_of_Life#Rules) on the cells</li>
  <li>'Tick' the board</li>
</ol>

This wasn't easy, but my experience from earlier in the week helped me out with developing the tick function, and I was quite pleased with the [results](https://github.com/asoper29/TIY-Assignments/blob/ced7fae2a59dd817ad4c1fbcc608cc50ee4cdeb7/08--Conway-LITE.js).

<code>
function tick(board){
  var newBoard = [];
  for (var i = 0; i < board.length; i++) {
    for (var j = 0; j < board[i].length; j++) {
      newBoard.push(conway(board[i][j], neighborsOf(board, i, j)));
    }
  }
  var row1 = newBoard.splice(0, 3);
  var row2 = newBoard.splice(0, 3);
  board = [row1, row2, newBoard];
  return board;
}
</code>

I never imagined that one week into learning JavaScript I would be conquering Conway's Game of Life, even a naive implementation. If this is week two, what could we possibly be doing next...


Lessons learned: It is much harder to work on something new when both partners aren't at the same level of understanding and it is equally difficult to teach something that you don't quite have a grasp of yourself.
