---
layout: post
title: Looking for love in Alderaan places
image: /images/alderaan.jpg
---

###September 29, 2014

Well the first week of class is officially over, and the first weekend assignment has successfully been completed... but it isn't pretty.

We spent this first week learning how to mess around with GitHub Pages, how to incorporate themes, and add content to our blogs. As of Wednesday I finally had a functioning theme and navigation bar, a few blog posts uploaded, and images associated with all of my posts. Then Thursday arrives and we receive our weekend assignment.

"Do a hard reset on your GitHub Pages repository and delete all branches other than master."

<code><pre>
git log --oneline //Find the commit

git reset --hard <commit> //Reset the local master to that commit
</code></pre>

Turns out copy and pasting someone else's theme isn't the best method for creating a website. Perhaps since this class is about becoming a front end developer we should learn how to crate a theme on our own. Makes sense.

To accomplish this goal we are starting from scratch; create an index.md, a _layouts/default.html, and a _posts folder to lay the framework for our new blog. I managed to successfully create a new site using minmal HTML and CSS I picked up from [Code Academy](http://www.codeacdemy.com) and with messing around with [Bootstrap](http://www.getbootstrap.com) (learned a bit from creating my nav bar last iteration of my site).

After I had the framework built I added in my posts, created a default posts layout, added in images, and messed around with Bootstrap again to add a nav bar with a drop-down menu. I realized from this activity how very little I understand HTML and CSS. I couldn't manage to center my text or paragraphs. Seemed pretty simple, but for some reason it was one of the most difficult things for me to accomplish. I hope to learn some more CSS and HTML soon so I can come back and reformat my blog.

Lesson learned: don't become too attached to projects in this class, you will be reseting often.
